"Seems," madam? Nay, it is. I know not "seems."
"This must be so." We pray you, throw to earth
'Tis gone and will not answer.
'Tis not alone my inky cloak, good mother,
'Tis now struck twelve. Get thee to bed, Francisco.
'Tis strange.
'Tis sweet and commendable in your nature,
(As it doth well appear unto our state)
(For so this side of our known world esteemed him)
A fault against the dead, a fault to nature,
A heart unfortified, a mind impatient,
A little ere the mightiest Julius fell,
A little more than kin and less than kind.
A mote it is to trouble the mind's eye.
A piece of him.
Against the which a moiety competent
An understanding simple and unschooled.
And I am sick at heart.
And bow them to your gracious leave and pardon.
And carriage of the article designed,
And even the like precurse of feared events,
And foreign mart for implements of war,
And let thine eye look like a friend on Denmark.
And let us hearspeak of this.
And let us once again assail your ears,
And liegemen to the Dane.
And lose your voice. What wouldst thou beg,
And now, Laertes, what's the news with you?
And our vain blows malicious mockery.
And prologue to the omen coming on,
And terms compulsatory, those foresaid lands
And the King's rouse the heaven shall bruit again,
And then it started like a guilty thing
And then, they say, no spirit dare stir abroad,
And thy best graces spend it at thy will.
And we beseech you, bend you to remain
And why such daily cast of brazen cannon
And will not let belief take hold of him
And with no less nobility of love
As any the most vulgar thing to sense,
As harbingers preceding still the fates
As if increase of appetite had grown
As needful in our loves, fitting our duty?
As of a father; for let the world take note,
As stars with trains of fire and dews of blood,
As thou art to thyself.
At least the whisper goes so: our last king,
Awake the god of day, and at his warning,
Ay, madam, it is common.
Be as ourself in Denmark.--Madam, come.
Before my God, I might not this believe
Break we our watch up, and by my advice
But I have that within which passes show,
But in the gross and scope of mine opinion
But look, the morn in russet mantle clad
But now, my cousin Hamlet and my son
But soft, behold! Lo, where it comes again!
But the great cannon to the clouds shall tell,
But to recover of us, by strong hand
But two months dead--nay, not so much, not two.
But you must know your father lost a father,
By laborsome petition, and at last
By what it fed on. And yet, within a month
Colleagued with this dream of his advantage,
Comes armed through our watch so like the king
Dared to the combat; in which our valiant Hamlet
Did forfeit, with his life, all those his lands
Did slay this Fortinbras, who by a sealed compact,
Did sometimes march? By heaven, I charge thee, speak.
Did squeak and gibber in the Roman streets;
Disasters in the sun; and the moist star,
Do I impart toward you. For your intent
Do not forever with thy vailed lids
Do you consent we shall acquaint him with it
Do, if it will not stand.
Does not divide the Sunday from the week.
Doth make the night joint laborer with the day?
Doth with his lofty and shrill-sounding throat
Ere yet the salt of most unrighteous tears
Extorted treasure in the womb of earth,
Farewell, and let your haste commend your duty.
Fie on 't, ah fie! 'Tis an unweeded garden
For bearers of this greeting to old Norway,
For food and diet to some enterprise
For it is as the air, invulnerable,
For they are actions that a man might play;
For this relief much thanks. 'Tis bitter cold,
For what we know must be and is as common
For which, they say, you spirits oft walk in death,
Friends to this ground.
From the first corse till he that died today,
From whence though willingly I came to Denmark
Give you good night.
Giving to you no further personal power
Good Hamlet, cast thy nighted color off,
Good now, sit down, and tell me, he that knows,
Had he been vanquisher, as, by the same comart
Had left the flushing in her galled eyes,
Had made his course t' illume that part of heaven
Hath in the skirts of Norway here and there
Hath my place. Give you good night.
Hath, my lord, wrung from me my slow leave
Have heaven and Earth together demonstrated
Have we (as 'twere with a defeated joy,
Have you had quiet guard?
Have you your father's leave? What says Polonius?
He hath not failed to pester us with message
He may approve our eyes and speak to it.
He smote the sledded Polacks on the ice.
Here in the cheer and comfort of our eye,
His canon 'gainst self-slaughter! O God, God,
His fell to Hamlet. Now, sir, young Fortinbras,
His further gait herein, in that the levies,
Holding a weak supposal of our worth
How is it that the clouds still hang on you?
How now, , you tremble and look pale.
How weary, stale, flat, and unprofitable
Hyperion to a satyr; so loving to my mother
I do beseech you give him leave to go.
I have seen nothing.
I pray thee, stay with us. Go not to Wittenberg.
I shall in all my best obey you, madam.
I think I hear them.Stand ho! Who is there?
I think it be no other but e'en so.
I'll cross it though it blast me.--Stay, illusion!
If there be any good thing to be done
If thou art privy to thy country's fate,
If thou hast any sound or use of voice,
If you do meetand,
Importing the surrender of those lands
In equal scale weighing delight and dole)
In filial obligation for some term
In going back to school in Wittenberg,
In obstinate condolement is a course
In that and all things will we show our duty.
In the most high and palmy state of Rome,
In the same figure like the King that's dead.
In what particular thought to work I know not,
In which the majesty of buried Denmark
Is death of fathers, and who still hath cried,
Is it not like the King?
Is not this something more than fantasy?
Is the main motive of our preparations,
It faded on the crowing of the cock.
It is most retrograde to our desire,
It is not, nor it cannot come to good.
It is offended.
It shows a will most incorrect to heaven,
It was about to speak when the cock crew.
It would be spoke to.
Last night of all,
Let not thy mother lose her prayers, Hamlet.
Let us impart what we have seen tonight
Let's do 't, I pray, and I this morning know
But break, my heart, for I must hold my tongue.
Long live the King!
Looks he not like the King? Mark it, .
Lost by his father, with all bonds of law,
Most like. It harrows me with fear and wonder.
Must I remember? Why, she would hang on him
My father's brother, but no more like my father
My thoughts and wishes bend again toward France
Nay, answer me. Stand and unfold yourself.
No fairy takes, nor witch hath power to charm,
No jocund health that Denmark drinks today
No, nor the fruitful river in the eye,
Nor customary suits of solemn black,
Nor the dejected havior of the visage,
Nor windy suspiration of forced breath,
Not a mouse stirring.
Not so, my lord; I am too much in the sun.
Now follows that you know. Young Fortinbras,
Now for ourself and for this time of meeting.
O farewell, honest soldier. Who hath relieved
O, speak!
O, that this too, too sullied flesh would melt,
Of impious stubbornness. 'Tis unmanly grief.
Of mine own eyes.
Of these dilated articles allow.
Of this his nephew's purpose, to suppress
Of this posthaste and rummage in the land.
Of unimproved mettle hot and full,
Or if thou hast uphoarded in thy life
Or that the Everlasting had not fixed
Or thinking by our late dear brother's death
Our chiefest courtier, cousin, and our son.
Our state to be disjoint and out of frame,
Out of his subject; and we here dispatch
Passing through nature to eternity.
Peace, break thee off! Look where it comes again.
Possess it merely. That it should come to this:
Respeaking earthly thunder. Come away.
Says 'tis but our fantasy
See, it stalks away.
Seek for thy noble father in the dust.
Seem to me all the uses of this world!
Shall I strike it with my partisan.
Sharked up a list of lawless resolutes
She married. O, most wicked speed, to post
Sit down awhile,
Sits smiling to my heart, in grace whereof
So by his father lost. And this, I take it,
So excellent a king, that was to this
So frowned he once when, in an angry parle,
So hallowed and so gracious is that time.
So have I heard and do in part believe it.
So nightly toils the subject of the land,
Some say that ever 'gainst that season comes
Speak of it.	[The cock crows.]
Speak to it,
Speak to me.
Speak to me.
Stay and speak!--Stop it, .
Stay! speak! speak! I charge thee, speak!
Such was the very armor he had on
Take it to heart? Fie, 'tis a fault to heaven,
Take thy fair hour, Laertes. Time be thine,
Taken to wife. Nor have we herein barred
Th' extravagant and erring spirit hies
Th' imperial jointress to this warlike state,
Than I to Hercules. Within a month,
Than is the throne of Denmark to thy father.
Than that which dearest father bears his son
That are so fortified against our story,
That can I.
That can denote me truly. These indeed "seem,"
That father lost, lost his, and the survivor bound
That grows to seed. Things rank and gross in nature
That hath a stomach in 't; which is no other
That he might not beteem the winds of heaven
That may to thee do ease and grace to me,
That shall not be my offer, not thy asking?
That was and is the question of these wars.
That we with wisest sorrow think on him
That, if again this apparition come,
Thaw, and resolve itself into a dew,
The bell then beating one--
The cock, that is the trumpet to the morn,
The graves stood tenantless, and the sheeted dead
The hand more instrumental to the mouth,
The head is not more native to the heart,
The lists, and full proportions are all made
The memory be green, and that it us befitted
The nights are wholesome; then no planets strike,
The rivals of my watch, bid them make haste.
The source of this our watch, and the chief head
Therefore I have entreated him along
Therefore our sometime sister, now our queen,
Thereto pricked on by a most emulate pride,
These but the trappings and the suits of woe.
This bird of dawning singeth all night long;
This bodes some strange eruption to our state.
This gentle and unforced accord of Hamlet
This present object made probation.
This spirit, dumb to us, will speak to him.
This unprevailing woe and think of us
Thou art a scholar. Speak to it, .
Thou know'st 'tis common; all that lives must die,
Though yet of Hamlet our dear brother's death
Thus much the business is: we have here writ
Thus twice before, and jump at this dead hour,
To Norway, uncle of young Fortinbras,
To be contracted in one brow of woe,
To bear our hearts in grief, and our whole kingdom
To business with the King more than the scope
To do obsequious sorrow. But to persever
To give these mourning duties to your father.
To his confine, and of the truth herein
To offer it the show of violence,
To our most valiant brother--so much for him.
To reason most absurd, whose common theme
To show my duty in your coronation,
To the inheritance of Fortinbras
Together with all forms, moods, shapes of grief,
Together with remembrance of ourselves.
Together with that fair and warlike form
Touching this dreaded sight twice seen of us.
Tush, tush, 'twill not appear.
Unto our climatures and countrymen.
Unto young Hamlet; for, upon my life,
Upon a fearful summons. I have heard
Upon his will I sealed my hard consent.
Upon whose influence Neptune's empire stands,
Visit her face too roughly. Heaven and Earth,
Walks o'er the dew of yon high eastward hill.
Was gaged by our king, which had returned
Was sick almost to doomsday with eclipse.
Was, as you know, by Fortinbras of Norway,
We do it wrong, being so majestical,
We doubt it nothing. Heartily farewell.
Welcome, Welcome, good
Well may it sort that this portentous figure
Well ratified by law and heraldry,
Well, good night.
Well, sit we down,
What art thou that usurp'st this time of night,
What might be toward that this sweaty haste
What think you on 't?
What we have two nights seen.
What wouldst thou have, Laertes?
What, has this thing appeared again tonight?
When he the ambitious Norway combated.
When yond same star that's westward from the pole
Where now it burns,and myself,
Where we shall find him most convenient.
Wherein our Savior's birth is celebrated,
Whether in sea or fire, in earth or air,
Which happily foreknowing may avoid,
Which he stood seized of, to the conqueror.
Who is 't that can inform me?
Who, impotent and bedrid, scarcely hears
Whose image even but now appeared to us,
Why seems it so particular with thee?
Why should we in our peevish opposition
Why such impress of shipwrights, whose sore task
Why this same strict and most observant watch
Why, 'tis a loving and a fair reply.
With an auspicious and a dropping eye,
With martial stalk hath he gone by our watch.
With mirth in funeral and with dirge in marriage,
With such dexterity to incestuous sheets!
With this affair along. For all, our thanks.
With us to watch the minutes of this night,
Without the sensible and true avouch
Yet now I must confess, that duty done,
Yet so far hath discretion fought with nature
You are the most immediate to our throne,
You cannot speak of reason to the Dane
You come most carefully upon your hour.
You told us of some suit. What is 't, Laertes?
You, good Cornelius, and you, Voltemand,
Your better wisdoms, which have freely gone
Your leave and favor to return to France,
[It spreads his arms.]
